Everyone looks a little troubled.
That’s right. I’m a little unsure about my decision.
Yes, it isn’t easy if you don’t have any judgment criteria
to judge by.
Let me explain the similarity of copyrighted works.
First, the following three points must be identified to judge the
similarity of copyrighted works.
The original expression is a copyrighted work;
There is access (Ikyo in Japanese).
There is a similarity.
In this case, Kasumi’s original work is a literary work
because it “creatively expresses thoughts or sentiments.”
The term “copyrighted work” means a creatively produced
expression of thoughts or sentiments
that falls within the literary, academic, artistic, or musical domain
under Article 2(1)(i) of the Copyright Law.
However, as Kasumi said earlier,
a setting like the world of a novel is considered
an idea and is not copyrighted.
There are a lot of manga and anime where the main character
is transported to another world and has activities there.
I see. That’s just the setting, so even making something similar
is not a copyright infringement.
The next is “access,” which means being based on existing works.
If there is a coincidence of similarity, it is not based on existing
work and will not infringe on copyright.
Tanuki07 is commenting on Kasumi’s work this time,
so we can assume he has read the story.
Therefore, there is a high likelihood of access.
Finally, “similarity.” This literally means how similar something is.
Kasumi said there was something that bothered her.
What do you mean by that?
There are a few descriptions, but the one that bothers me
is the beginning of the scene where the main character meets
the girl on land for the first time.
They look almost identical!
I wonder if using the same expression as
“lightly floating” (puka puka) is possible.
I see. The structure of the sentences is similar,
and it is true that “white foam lightly floating” (puka puka)
is not a commonplace expression.
Since it is used in similar situations, there seems to be a similarity.
In this case, there seems to be a copyrighted work,
access, and similarity.
So, it’s plagiarism after all!
Please settle down.
In reality, there are some aspects of copyright similarity
that cannot be determined until a court case is filed.
Even an amateur like me can see that they look very similar,
so is there something I don’t understand?
Yes. From here on, I will talk about the law.
The voice has changed.
The Copyright Law is a law that has room for interpretation.
It is necessary to consider each case and how we can interpret it.
In this case, we need to consider
how many similar works existed before Kasumi’s work
and what parts of Kasumi’s work show her creativity
compared to them.
Regarding access, it might be possible
that tanuki07 wrote it first and released it later than Kasumi.
So, without listening to tanuki07’s side of the story as well,
you won’t know the background and intent of
how this work was created.
Judgment will be based on a comprehensive consideration of
all such matters.
The experts will consider it comprehensively.
What seems obvious to an amateur may not be so when you
consider the background.
I felt that it was even more difficult to judge
whether it was plagiarism or not.
Judging similarity is very complicated even for experts.
Therefore, amateurs should not make hasty judgments.
That’s right.
There are also guidelines in “Let’s Write a Novel,”
so if you still have problems, you can contact the website owner.
Yes! I’ll think about it.